Minor readability improvements to gateway docs (#711)
conduktor/conduktor-docs: docs/gateway/concepts/interceptors.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Interceptors
description: Elevate your Kafka usage with Conduktor Gateway Interceptors
---

> Conduktor Gateway offers a number of powerful Interceptors that enhance your Kafka usage. Interceptors let you simulate different scenarios and much more.

Author: ```suggestion
Conduktor Gateway offers a number of powerful Interceptors that enhance your Kafka usage.
```

For example, you can use Interceptors to:

> - perform full-body or field-level encryption and decryption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- perform full-message or field-level encryption, and decryption
```

Author: chatgpt suggests that if you really want to use the oxford comma you might rewrite as,

`– perform full-message encryption, field-level encryption, and decryption`

Author: > that's assuming we care about the Oxford comma rule according to our writing guidelines, which we're not ;)

lol.

- reject (during produce) or skip (during consume) records that don't match specified data quality rules
- enforce producer configurations such as acks or compression

> - override configurations during a CreateTopic request, such as a replication factor or naming convention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- override or enforce configurations during a CreateTopic request, such as a replication factor or naming convention
```

 [View the Interceptor catalog](/gateway/category/interceptor-catalog/).

## Using Interceptors

> To deploy an Interceptor, you have to prepare its configuration. Configuring and deploying an Interceptor is similar to using [Kafka Connect connectors](/platform/navigation/console/kafka-connect/#add-a-connector).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying an Interceptor, you have to configure it, similar to using [Kafka Connect connectors](/platform/navigation/console/kafka-connect/#add-a-connector).
```

 [View the Interceptor catalog](/gateway/category/interceptor-catalog/).

## Using Interceptors

To deploy an Interceptor, you have to prepare its configuration. Configuring and deploying an Interceptor is similar to using [Kafka Connect connectors](/platform/navigation/console/kafka-connect/#add-a-connector).

Here's an example of an Interceptor that will block the creation of topics with more than six partitions:

````json
curl \
  --request PUT \
  --url 'http://localhost:8888/gateway/v2/interceptor' \
  --header 'Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46Y29uZHVrdG9y' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-raw '{
  "kind" : "Interceptor",
  "apiVersion" : "gateway/v2",
  "metadata" : {
    "name" : "less-than-6-partitions"
  },
  "spec" : {
    "pluginClass": "io.conduktor.gateway.interceptor.safeguard.CreateTopicPolicyPlugin",
    "priority": 100,
    "config": {
      "topic": ".*",
      "numPartition": {
        "min": 1,
        "max": 6,
        "action": "BLOCK"
      }
    }
  }
}'
````

### Chaining

Interceptors can be chained, allowing you to create powerful interactions for various scenarios.

> Each Interceptor can have a distinct purpose that's unrelated to other Interceptors in the chain. Interceptors are executed in order of priority, starting with the lowest number. Interceptor actions are performed **sequentially and independently**, passing the results from one to the next one in the chain.

Reviewer: Would be nice to clarify the range on priority, this comes up every few months, what is the lowest number here? -100? or is it size of int etc.

:::info[Chaining caveat]
The order of execution is calculated **after scoping and overriding**. For example, an overridden Interceptor can have a different priority from its parent.
:::

### Scoping

Interceptor scoping lets you **define affected Kafka clients** (ultimately resolved as Service Accounts).

There are four targeting scopes:

1. Global
1. VirtualCluster
1. Group
1. ServiceAccount  

[See resource reference details](/gateway/reference/resources-reference/).

Example:

````json

> // This interceptor only applies to service account 'sa-clickstream'

Reviewer: (meant to link to line below)

    "priority": 100,
    "config": {
      "topic": ".*",
      "numPartition": {
        "min": 1,
        "max": 6,
        "action": "BLOCK"
      }
    }
  }
}'
````

### Chaining

Interceptors can be chained, allowing you to create powerful interactions for various scenarios.

Each Interceptor can have a distinct purpose that's unrelated to other Interceptors in the chain. Interceptors are executed in order of priority, starting with the lowest number. Interceptor actions are performed **sequentially and independently**, passing the results from one to the next one in the chain.

:::info[Chaining caveat]
The order of execution is calculated **after scoping and overriding**. For example, an overridden Interceptor can have a different priority from its parent.
:::

### Scoping

Interceptor scoping lets you **define affected Kafka clients** (ultimately resolved as Service Accounts).

There are four targeting scopes:

1. Global
1. VirtualCluster
1. Group
1. ServiceAccount  

[See resource reference details](/gateway/reference/resources-reference/).

Example:

````json
// This interceptor only applies to service account 'sa-clickstream'

> curl \

Reviewer: I updated this but would like a 👍 this is correct
(it does successfully get deployed)

Author: LGTM and deployed locally for me too.

1. ServiceAccount
1. Group
1. VirtualCluster
1. Global

:::info[Overriding caveat]
In the two JSON examples above, both Interceptors have the same name (`enforce-partition-limit`) but two different scopes: the first one is global, the second one is targeting user `sa-clickstream`. These Interceptors aren't chained but the second one is overriding the first one. The `sa-clickstream` service account will be allowed to create topics with 1 to 20 partitions, while other service accounts will be limited to six. If these Interceptors had different names, they would be chained, so the first one would enforce the restriction to 6 partitions.
:::

### Interceptor interaction example

Here's an example combining Interceptors **chaining**, **scoping** and **overriding**:

- `interceptor-C` is deployed only for Alice (scoping)
- `interceptor-D` is deployed globally (scoping) but also deployed specifically for Bob (overriding)
- `interceptor-A` and `interceptor-B` are deployed globally (scoping)
- the priorities (`01`, `40`, `45` and `50`) are then considered for the final execution order (chaining)
  ![Interceptor example](img/interceptor-example.png)

> When you need Interceptors to apply conditionally, targeting by Service Account is the most straightforward way.

Reviewer: Is there technically another way?
If not, let's say you should target by service acccount

}
````

### Chaining

Interceptors can be chained, allowing you to create powerful interactions for various scenarios.

Each Interceptor can have a distinct purpose that's unrelated to other Interceptors in the chain. Interceptors are executed in order of priority, starting with the lowest number. Interceptor actions are performed **sequentially and independently**, passing the results from one to the next one in the chain.

:::info[Chaining caveat]
The order of execution is calculated **after scoping and overriding**. For example, an overridden Interceptor can have a different priority from its parent.
:::

### Scoping

Interceptor scoping lets you **define affected Kafka clients** (ultimately resolved as Service Accounts).

There are four targeting scopes:

1. Global
1. VirtualCluster
1. Group

> 1. ServiceAccount  

Author: how about not numbering this list as it implies a precedence that is only actually explained (in the opposite order) in the next section.

Reviewer: Link out to here?
http://localhost:3000/gateway/reference/resources-reference/#interceptor-targeting

Author: > Link out to here?
> http://localhost:3000/gateway/reference/resources-reference/#interceptor-targeting

i think you meant to comment on the next paragraph. and weirdly i had made exactly that change locally and never pushed it (or the commit history got broken somehow). anyway i've pushed up now.

````

### Overriding

> Interceptor overriding lets you change the behavior of an Interceptor by **redeploying it with the same name but under a different scope**. This will effectively override the lower precedence Interceptors.

Reviewer: Is it redeploying or just deploying here?

Author: kind of overloaded isn't it (using redeploy to imply that an additional instance of the same interceptor type is deployed).

How about rewording to,

```
Interceptor overriding lets you change the behavior of an Interceptor by **deploying an additional instance with the same name but under a different scope**. This will effectively override the lower precedence Interceptors.
```

Reviewer: Happy with "good enough" for today, not reworking whole page
